WM8978  
Production Data 
w 
PD, Rev 4.5, October 2011 
 
 
22 
 
OUT3 and OUT4 can be configured to provide an additional stereo lineout from the output of the 
DACs, the mixers or the input microphone boost stages.  Alternatively OUT4 can be configured as a 
mono mix of left and right DACs or mixers, or simply a buffered version of the chip midrail reference 
voltage. OUT3 can also be configured as a buffered VMID output.  This voltage may then be used as 
a headphone ‘pseudo ground’ allowing removal of the large AC coupling capacitors often used in the 
output path. 
AUDIO INTERFACES 
 
The WM8978 has a standard audio interface, to support the transmission of stereo data to and from 
the chip. This interface is a 3 wire standard audio interface which supports a number of audio data 
formats including I2S, DSP/PCM Mode (a burst mode in which LRC sync plus 2 data packed words 
are transmitted), MSB-First, left justified and MSB-First, right justified, and can operate in master or 
slave modes.   
CONTROL INTERFACES 
 
To allow full software control over all features, the WM8978 offers a choice of 2 or 3 wire control 
interface. It is fully compatible and an ideal partner for a wide range of industry standard 
microprocessors, controllers and DSPs. 
Selection between the modes is via the MODE pin. In 2 wire mode  the address of the device is fixed 
as 0011010. 
 
CLOCKING SCHEMES 
 
WM8978 offers the normal audio DAC clocking scheme operation, where 256fs MCLK is provided to 
the DAC and ADC.  
A PLL is included which may be used to generate these clocks in the event that they are not available 
from the system controller. This PLL uses an input clock, typically the 12MHz USB or ilink clock, to 
generate high quality audio clocks.  If this PLL is not required for generation of these clocks, it can be 
reconfigured to generate alternative clocks which may then be output on the GPIO pins and used 
elsewhere in the system. 
 
POWER CONTROL 
 
The design of the WM8978 has given much attention to power consumption without compromising 
performance. It operates at very low voltages, and includes the ability to power off any unused parts 
of the circuitry under software control, and includes standby and power off modes. 
 
OPERATION SCENARIOS 
 
Flexibility in the design of the WM8978 allows for a wide range of operational scenarios, some of 
which are proposed below: 
Multimedia phone; High quality playback to a stereo headset, a mono ear speaker or a loudspeaker is 
supported, allowing hi-fi playback to be mixed with voice and other analogue inputs while 
simultaneously transmitting a differential output from the microphone amplifier. A 5-band EQ enables 
hi-fi playback to be customised to suit the user's preferences and the music style, while 
programmable filtering allows fixed-frequency noise (e.g. 217Hz) to be reduced in the digital domain.  
Stereo Camcorder; The provision of two stereo microphone preamplifiers, allows support for both 
internal and external microphones. All drivers for speaker, headphone and line output connections are 
integrated. The selectable ‘application filters’ after the ADC provide for features such as ‘wind noise’ 
reduction, or mechanical noise reducing filters. 
Stereo Digital still camera recording; Support for digital stereo recording is similar to the camcorder 
case. But additionally if the DSC supports MP3 playback, and perhaps recording, the ability of the 
ADCs to support full 48ks/s high quality stereo recording increases device flexibility.   
Mono Digital still camera; Full control over device functionality, and power control is provided, 
allowing for the case of mono DSC recording, when half of the ADC and mic and line functionality 
may be disabled to save power. In the mono case, the single ADC channel of audio data is sent out 
over the Left channel of the audio interface.  
