Production Data 
WM8978 
w 
PD, Rev 4.5, October 2011 
 
 
117 
 
IMPORTANT NOTICE 
 
Wolfson Microelectronics plc (“Wolfson”) products and services are sold subject to Wolfson’s terms and conditions of sale, 
delivery and payment supplied at the time of order acknowledgement. 
  
Wolfson warrants performance of its products to the specifications in effect at the date of shipment. Wolfson reserves the 
right to make changes to its products and specifications or to discontinue any product or service without notice. Customers 
should therefore obtain the latest version of relevant information from Wolfson to verify that the information is current.  
 
Testing and other quality control techniques are utilised to the extent Wolfson deems necessary to support its warranty.  
Specific testing of all parameters of each device is not necessarily performed unless required by law or regulation. 
 
In order to minimise risks associated with customer applications, the customer must use adequate design and operating 
safeguards to minimise inherent or procedural hazards.  Wolfson is not liable for applications assistance or customer 
product design.  The customer is solely responsible for its selection and use of Wolfson products.  Wolfson is not liable for 
such selection or use nor for use of any circuitry other than circuitry entirely embodied in a Wolfson product. 
 
Wolfson’s products are not intended for use in life support systems, appliances, nuclear systems or systems where 
malfunction can reasonably be expected to result in personal injury, death or severe property or environmental damage.  
Any use of products by the customer for such purposes is at the customer’s own risk.   
 
Wolfson does not grant any licence (express or implied) under any patent right, copyright, mask work right or other 
intellectual property right of Wolfson covering or relating to any combination, machine, or process in which its products or 
services might be or are used.  Any provision or publication of any third party’s products or services does not constitute 
Wolfson’s approval, licence, warranty or endorsement thereof.  Any third party trade marks contained in this document 
belong to the respective third party owner. 
 
Reproduction of information from Wolfson datasheets is permissible only if reproduction is without alteration and is 
accompanied by all associated copyright, proprietary and other notices (including this notice) and conditions.   Wolfson is 
not liable for any unauthorised alteration of such information or for any reliance placed thereon.   
 
Any representations made, warranties given, and/or liabilities accepted by any person which differ from those contained in 
this datasheet or in Wolfson’s standard terms and conditions of sale, delivery and payment are made, given and/or 
accepted at that person’s own risk. Wolfson is not liable for any such representations, warranties or liabilities or for any 
reliance placed thereon by any person. 
 
 
ADDRESS 
Wolfson Microelectronics plc 
Westfield House 
26 Westfield Road 
Edinburgh 
EH11 2QB 
United Kingdom 
 
Tel :: +44 (0)131 272 7000 
Fax :: +44 (0)131 272 7001 
Email :: sales@wolfsonmicro.com  
 
