Production Data 
WM8978 
w 
PD, Rev 4.5, October 2011 
 
 
83 
 
In 2-wire mode the WM8978 has a fixed device address, 0011010. 
RESETTING THE CHIP 
The WM8978 can be reset by performing a write of any value to the software reset register (address 
0 hex).  This will cause all register values to be reset to their default values.  In addition to this there 
is a Power-On Reset (POR) circuit which ensures that the registers are set to default when the device 
is powered up.   
POWER SUPPLIES 
The WM8978 can use up to five separate power supplies: 
AVDD and AGND: Analogue supply, powers all analogue functions except the speaker output and 
mono output drivers. AVDD can range from 2.5V to 3.6V and has the most significant impact on 
overall power consumption (except for power consumed in the headphone). A large AVDD slightly 
improves audio quality. 
SPKVDD and SPKGND: Headphone and Speaker supplies, power the speaker and mono output 
drivers. SPKVDD can range from 2.5V to 5V. SPKVDD can be tied to AVDD, but it requires separate 
layout and decoupling capacitors to curb harmonic distortion. With a larger SPKVDD, louder 
headphone and speaker outputs can be achieved with lower distortion. If SPKVDD is lower than 
AVDD, the output signal may be clipped. 
DCVDD: Digital core supply, powers all digital functions except the audio and control interfaces. 
DCVDD can range from 1.71V to 3.6V, and has no effect on audio quality. The return path for 
DCVDD is DGND, which is shared with DBVDD. 
DBVDD can range from 1.71V to 3.6V.  DBVDD return path is through DGND. 
It is possible to use the same supply voltage for all four supplies. However, digital and analogue 
supplies should be routed and decoupled separately on the PCB to keep digital switching noise out of 
the analogue signal paths. 
DCVDD should be greater than or equal to 1.9V when using the PLL. 
 
RECOMMENDED POWER UP/DOWN SEQUENCE 
In order to minimise output pop and click noise, it is recommended that the WM8978 device is 
powered up and down using one of the following sequences: 
Power-up when NOT using the output 1.5x boost stage: 
1. 
Turn on external power supplies. Wait for supply voltage to settle. 
2. 
Mute all analogue outputs. 
3. 
Set L/RMIXEN = 1 and DACENL/R = 1 in register R3. 
4. 
Set BUFIOEN = 1 and VMIDSEL[1:0] to required value in register R1. Wait for the VMID supply 
to settle. *Refer notes 1 and 2. 
5. 
Set BIASEN = 1 in register R1. 
6. 
Set L/ROUT1EN = 1 in register R2. 
7. 
Enable other mixers as required. 
8. 
Enable other outputs as required. 
9. 
Set remaining registers. 
 
